<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1430 Reported in House (RH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;





                                                  House Calendar No. 88
118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1430

                          [Report No. 118-656]

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1398) to establish the 
     CCP Initiative program, and for other purposes; providing for 
   consideration of the bill (H.R. 1425) to require any convention, 
 agreement, or other international instrument on pandemic prevention, 
 preparedness, and response reached by the World Health Assembly to be 
subject to Senate ratification; providing for consideration of the bill 
   (H.R. 1516) to establish Department of Homeland Security funding 
     restrictions on institutions of higher education that have a 
    relationship with Confucius Institutes, and for other purposes; 
   providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7980) to amend the 
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude vehicles the batteries of 
 which contain materials sourced from prohibited foreign entities from 
the clean vehicle credit; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
   9456) to amend the Defense Production Act of 1950 with respect to 
    foreign investments in United States agriculture, and for other 
   purposes; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 9494) 
 making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2025, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 10, 2024

  Mr. Langworthy, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1398) to establish the 
     CCP Initiative program, and for other purposes; providing for 
   consideration of the bill (H.R. 1425) to require any convention, 
 agreement, or other international instrument on pandemic prevention, 
 preparedness, and response reached by the World Health Assembly to be 
subject to Senate ratification; providing for consideration of the bill 
   (H.R. 1516) to establish Department of Homeland Security funding 
     restrictions on institutions of higher education that have a 
    relationship with Confucius Institutes, and for other purposes; 
   providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7980) to amend the 
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude vehicles the batteries of 
 which contain materials sourced from prohibited foreign entities from 
the clean vehicle credit; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
   9456) to amend the Defense Production Act of 1950 with respect to 
    foreign investments in United States agriculture, and for other 
   purposes; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 9494) 
 making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2025, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1398) to establish the CCP 
Initiative program, and for other purposes. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill 
and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or 
their respective designees. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
the Judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 118-45 shall 
be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the 
Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill 
for the purpose of further amendment under the five-minute rule and 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the bill, as 
amended, shall be in order except those printed in part A of the report 
of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such 
further amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the 
report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall 
be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with 
such further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any 
further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved 
into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1425) to require any convention, 
agreement, or other international instrument on pandemic prevention, 
preparedness, and response reached by the World Health Assembly to be 
subject to Senate ratification. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or their respective 
designees. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. An amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 118-44 shall 
be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the 
Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill 
for the purpose of further amendment under the five-minute rule and 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the bill, as 
amended, shall be in order except those printed in part B of the report 
of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such 
further amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the 
report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall 
be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with 
such further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any 
further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved 
into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1516) to establish Department of 
Homeland Security funding restrictions on institutions of higher 
education that have a relationship with Confucius Institutes, and for 
other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. 
General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Homeland Security or their respective 
designees. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Homeland 
Security now printed in the bill pursuant to Part II of House Report 
118-319, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the 
text of Rules Committee Print 118-46 shall be considered as adopted in 
the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended, 
shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose of further 
amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. 
All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are 
waived. No further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order 
except those printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such further amendment may be 
offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by 
a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall 
be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such further amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill, as amended, to the House with such further amendments 
as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit.
    Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7980) to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude vehicles the batteries of which contain 
materials sourced from prohibited foreign entities from the clean 
vehicle credit. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by 
the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the bill shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, 
are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective designees; and 
(2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 5.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 9456) to amend the Defense 
Production Act of 1950 with respect to foreign investments in United 
States agriculture, and for other purposes. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial 
Services or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 6.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 9494) making continuing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2025, and for other purposes. All points 
of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment 
printed in part D of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further 
amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: 
(1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their 
respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
                                                  House Calendar No. 88

118th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 1430

                          [Report No. 118-656]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1398) to establish the 
     CCP Initiative program, and for other purposes; providing for 
   consideration of the bill (H.R. 1425) to require any convention, 
 agreement, or other international instrument on pandemic prevention, 
 preparedness, and response reached by the World Health Assembly to be 
subject to Senate ratification; providing for consideration of the bill 
   (H.R. 1516) to establish Department of Homeland Security funding 
     restrictions on institutions of higher education that have a 
    relationship with Confucius Institutes, and for other purposes; 
   providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7980) to amend the 
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude vehicles the batteries of 
 which contain materials sourced from prohibited foreign entities from 
the clean vehicle credit; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
   9456) to amend the Defense Production Act of 1950 with respect to 
    foreign investments in United States agriculture, and for other 
   purposes; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 9494) 
 making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2025, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 10, 2024

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
</pre></body></html>
