<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1568 Reported in House (RH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;





                                                  House Calendar No. 94
118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1568

                          [Report No. 118-732]

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8932) to establish an 
   earlier application processing cycle for the FAFSA; providing for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 7409) to amend the Geothermal Steam Act 
  of 1970 to waive the requirement for a Federal drilling permit for 
certain activities, to exempt certain activities from the requirements 
    of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, and for other 
 purposes; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8446) to 
   amend the Energy Act of 2020 to include critical materials in the 
        definition of critical mineral, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 12, 2024

   Mr. Burgess, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8932) to establish an 
   earlier application processing cycle for the FAFSA; providing for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 7409) to amend the Geothermal Steam Act 
  of 1970 to waive the requirement for a Federal drilling permit for 
certain activities, to exempt certain activities from the requirements 
    of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, and for other 
 purposes; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8446) to 
   amend the Energy Act of 2020 to include critical materials in the 
        definition of critical mineral, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 8932) to establish an 
earlier application processing cycle for the FAFSA. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the 
nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Education and 
the Workforce now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and 
the Workforce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to 
recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7409) to amend the Geothermal 
Steam Act of 1970 to waive the requirement for a Federal drilling 
permit for certain activities, to exempt certain activities from the 
requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, and for 
other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Natural Resources or their respective designees; 
and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 8446) to amend the Energy Act of 
2020 to include critical materials in the definition of critical 
mineral, and for other purposes. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on the Natural Resources now 
printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as 
amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any 
further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources 
or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
                                                  House Calendar No. 94

118th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 1568

                          [Report No. 118-732]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8932) to establish an 
   earlier application processing cycle for the FAFSA; providing for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 7409) to amend the Geothermal Steam Act 
  of 1970 to waive the requirement for a Federal drilling permit for 
certain activities, to exempt certain activities from the requirements 
    of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, and for other 
 purposes; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8446) to 
   amend the Energy Act of 2020 to include critical materials in the 
        definition of critical mineral, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           November 12, 2024

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
</pre></body></html>
