<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3334 Engrossed in House (EH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3334

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To provide for the imposition of sanctions on members of the National 
  Communist Party Congress of the People's Republic of China, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sanctioning Tyrannical and 
Oppressive People within the Chinese Communist Party Act'' or the 
``STOP CCP Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Hong Kong National Security Law promulgated on July 
        1, 2020--
                    (A) contravenes the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
                Special Administrative Region that provides in Article 
                23 that the Legislative Council of Hong Kong shall 
                enact legislation related to national security;
                    (B) violates the People's Republic of China's 
                commitments under international law, as defined by the 
                Joint Declaration; and
                    (C) causes severe and irreparable damage to the 
                ``one country, two systems'' principle and further 
                erodes global confidence in the People's Republic of 
                China's commitment to international law.
            (2) Repression of ethnic Muslim minorities in the Xinjiang 
        Uyghur Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China has 
        been ongoing, and was formalized with the ``Strike Hard 
        Campaign against Violent Terrorism'' that began in 2014.
            (3) The mass internment of Uyghur and other Muslim ethnic 
        minorities in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region has been 
        ongoing since April 2017.
            (4) The People's Republic of China has conducted a targeted 
        and systemic population-control campaign against ethnic and 
        religious minorities in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 
        by imposing and implementing coercive population-control 
        practices, including selectively enforcing birth quotas, 
        targeting minority women who are in noncompliance with birth 
        quotas, and subjecting women to coercive measures such as 
        forced birth control, forced sterilization, and forced 
        abortion.
            (5) On October 6, 2020, 39 countries delivered a cross-
        regional joint statement to the United States Mission to the 
        United Nations on the human rights abuses on Uyghurs and other 
        minorities for forced birth control including sterilization.
            (6) On January 19, 2021, the Department of State determined 
        that the People's Republic of China committed crimes against 
        humanity and genocide against Uyghurs and other ethnic and 
        religious minority groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous 
        Region, citing forced sterilizations, forced abortions, coerced 
        marriages, and separation of Uyghur children from their 
        families.
            (7) The Department of State's 2020 Country Reports on Human 
        Rights Practices affirmed the genocide determination and noted 
        coercive population control measures inflicted on ethnic and 
        religious minority women in China, including forced injections 
        with ``drugs that cause temporary or permanent end to their 
        menstrual cycles and fertility''.
            (8) The United States ratified the United Nations 
        Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide in 
        1988, recognizing that ``imposing measures intended to prevent 
        births within the group'' with intent to destroy a group in 
        whole or part is an act that constitutes genocide.
            (9) Taiwan is a free and prosperous democracy of nearly 
        24,000,000 people and an important contributor to peace and 
        stability around the world.
            (10) Section 2(b) of the Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 
        96-8; 22 U.S.C. 3301(b)) states that it is the policy of the 
        United States--
                    (A) ``to preserve and promote extensive, close, and 
                friendly commercial, cultural, and other relations 
                between the people of the United States and the people 
                on Taiwan, as well as the people on the China mainland 
                and all other peoples of the Western Pacific area'';
                    (B) ``to declare that peace and stability in the 
                area are in the political, security, and economic 
                interests of the United States, and are matters of 
                international concern'';
                    (C) ``to make clear that the United States decision 
                to establish diplomatic relations with the People's 
                Republic of China rests upon the expectation that the 
                future of Taiwan will be determined by peaceful 
                means'';
                    (D) ``to consider any effort to determine the 
                future of Taiwan by other than peaceful means, 
                including by boycotts or embargoes, a threat to the 
                peace and security of the Western Pacific area and of 
                grave concern to the United States'';
                    (E) ``to provide Taiwan with arms of a defensive 
                character''; and
                    (F) ``to maintain the capacity of the United States 
                to resist any resort to force or other forms of 
                coercion that would jeopardize the security, or the 
                social or economic system, of the people on Taiwan''.
            (11) Since the election of President Tsai Ing-wen as 
        President of Taiwan in 2016, the Government of the People's 
        Republic of China has intensified its efforts to pressure 
        Taiwan through diplomatic isolation and military provocations.
            (12) The rapid modernization of the People's Liberation 
        Army and recent military maneuvers in and around the Taiwan 
        Strait illustrate a clear threat to Taiwan's security.

SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that members of the Chinese Communist 
Party, led by General Secretary Xi Jinping, are responsible for 
violations of Hong Kong's autonomy, increased aggression against the 
people of Taiwan, numerous human rights violations against the people 
of Hong Kong and the people of Taiwan, and acts of repression and 
genocide against Uyghur Muslims in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous 
Region.

SEC. 4. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS ON MEMBERS OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF 
              THE CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall impose the sanctions 
described in subsection (c) with respect to--
            (1) each person who is a member of the Central Committee of 
        the Chinese Communist Party, including alternate members 
        thereof, that the President determines engages in the conduct 
        described in subsection (b);
            (2) each person who is a member of any successor 
        organization of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist 
        Party that the President determines engages in the conduct 
        described in subsection (b), in the event that the Central 
        Committee is dissolved;
            (3) each person who is an adult family member, including a 
        spouse or an adult family member of the spouse, of a person 
        described in paragraph (1) or paragraph (2); and
            (4) each person the President determines is a Chinese 
        state-owned enterprise--
                    (A) illegally manufacturing or distributing 
                fentanyl; or
                    (B) knowingly or intentionally manufacturing or 
                distributing fentanyl precursor chemicals to be used in 
                the illegal production or distribution of fentanyl.
    (b) Sanctionable Conduct.--A person engages in the conduct 
described by this subsection if the person plays a significant role in 
the development or implementation of government policies or laws that 
the President determines appear designed to--
            (1) violate the autonomy of Hong Kong;
            (2) harass, intimidate, or result in increased aggression 
        towards the people of Taiwan;
            (3) contribute to political oppression or violation of 
        human rights of individuals or societal groups within the 
        People's Republic of China, including Uyghur Muslims; or
            (4) willfully and knowingly engage in malicious activities, 
        including online disinformation campaigns and propaganda, for 
        the purpose of interfering with United States Federal, State, 
        or local elections.
    (c) Sanctions Described.--
            (1) In general.--The sanctions described in this subsection 
        are the following:
                    (A) Blocking of property.--The President shall 
                exercise all of the powers granted to the President 
                under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
                (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to 
                block and prohibit all transactions in property and 
                interests in property of the person if such property 
                and interests in property are in the United States, 
                come within the United States, or are or come within 
                the possession or control of a United States person.
                    (B) Aliens ineligible for visas, admission, or 
                parole.--
                            (i) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien 
                        who the Secretary of State or the Secretary of 
                        Homeland Security (or a designee of one of such 
                        Secretaries) knows, or has reason to believe, 
                        is described in subsection (a) is--
                                    (I) inadmissible to the United 
                                States;
                                    (II) ineligible to receive a visa 
                                or other documentation to enter the 
                                United States; and
                                    (III) otherwise ineligible to be 
                                admitted or paroled into the United 
                                States or to receive any other benefit 
                                under the Immigration and Nationality 
                                Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
                            (ii) Current visas revoked.--
                                    (I) In general.--The issuing 
                                consular officer, the Secretary of 
                                State, or the Secretary of Homeland 
                                Security (or a designee of one of such 
                                Secretaries) shall, in accordance with 
                                section 221(i) of the Immigration and 
                                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), 
                                revoke any visa or other entry 
                                documentation issued to an alien 
                                described in clause (i) regardless of 
                                when the visa or other entry 
                                documentation is issued.
                                    (II) Effect of revocation.--A 
                                revocation under subclause (I) shall 
                                take effect immediately and shall 
                                automatically cancel any other valid 
                                visa or entry documentation that is in 
                                the alien's possession.
            (2) Exceptions.--
                    (A) United nations headquarters agreement.--The 
                sanctions described in paragraph (1)(B) shall not apply 
                with respect to an alien if admitting or paroling the 
                alien into the United States is necessary to permit the 
                United States to comply with the Agreement regarding 
                the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake 
                Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 
                21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
                States, or other applicable international obligations.
                    (B) Exception for intelligence, law enforcement, 
                and national security activities.--Sanctions under 
                paragraph (1) shall not apply to any authorized 
                intelligence, law enforcement, or national security 
                activities of the United States.
    (d) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections (b) and 
(c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
(50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person that violates, attempts to 
violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of regulations 
promulgated to carry out this section or the sanctions imposed pursuant 
to this section to the same extent that such penalties apply to a 
person that commits an unlawful act described in section 206(a) of that 
Act.
    (e) Implementation Authority.--The President may exercise all 
authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and 205 of the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) 
for purposes of carrying out this section.
    (f) Regulatory Authority.--The President shall, not later than 30 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, promulgate 
regulations as necessary for the implementation of this section.
    (g) Waiver.--The President may, for one or more periods of not more 
than 60 days each, waive the application of sanctions or restrictions 
imposed with respect to a foreign person under this section if the 
President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees, not 
later than 15 days before such waiver takes effect, that the waiver is 
vital to the national security interests of the United States.
    (h) Termination.--The President may terminate any sanctions imposed 
under subsection (a) not fewer than 15 days after the date on which the 
President provides a written certification to the appropriate 
congressional committees, and concurrently publishes on a publicly 
available website of the Federal Government, that--
            (1) the People's Republic of China and the Chinese 
        Communist Party have--
                    (A) ceased the genocide of the Uyghur Muslim 
                population, including verifiably shutting down all 
                internment camps of Uyghurs and ending the practice of 
                facilitating or supporting Uyghur forced labor and 
                forced sterilization;
                    (B) ceased all forms of oppression of the Tibetan 
                people, including those significant human rights abuses 
                detailed in the Tibet section of the Department of 
                State's 2023 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices;
                    (C) ceased all forms of threats, military 
                exercises, and aggression toward Taiwan, including 
                through verifiably, and for at least a period of one 
                year, having not conducted any breach of Taiwan's air 
                space, territorial waters, or land mass, by any 
                military or intelligence personnel associated with the 
                People's Republic of China or the Chinese Communist 
                Party, or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
                    (D) ceased the undermining of the autonomy of Hong 
                Kong, including through respecting the terms of the 
                Sino-British Joint Declaration, and reversing all steps 
                taken to interfere with the democratic process and 
                governance of Hong Kong; and
                    (E) ceased efforts to steal the intellectual 
                property of United States persons; or
            (2) the sanctioned person has--
                    (A) if the person is described in any of paragraphs 
                (1) through (3) of subsection (a)--
                            (i) affirmatively renounced membership in 
                        the Chinese Communist Party; and
                            (ii) taken affirmative steps to denounce or 
                        remediate the conduct forming the basis for 
                        imposition of the sanction; or
                    (B) if the person is described in paragraph (4) of 
                subsection (a), taken affirmative steps to cease the 
                manufacture and distribution of fentanyl or any 
                precursor chemical known or intended to be used in the 
                illegal production or distribution of fentanyl.
    (i) Sunset of Waiver and License Authorities.--The President's 
authority to issue waivers or licenses with respect to sanctions 
required by subsection (a), including pursuant to sections 203 and 205 
of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 
1704), shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (j) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--
            (1) In general.--The authorities and requirements to impose 
        sanctions authorized under this Act shall not include the 
        authority or requirement to impose sanctions on the importation 
        of goods.
            (2) Good defined.--In this subsection, the term ``good'' 
        means any article, natural or man-made substance, material, 
        supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test 
        equipment, and excluding technical data.
    (k) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

            Passed the House of Representatives September 25, 2024.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
118th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 3334

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 To provide for the imposition of sanctions on members of the National 
  Communist Party Congress of the People's Republic of China, and for 
                            other purposes.
</pre></body></html>
