<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 9106 Engrossed in House (EH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 9106

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To direct the Director of the United States Secret Service to apply the 
same standards for determining the number of agents required to protect 
     Presidents, Vice Presidents, and major Presidential and Vice 
            Presidential candidates, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Enhanced Presidential Security Act 
of 2024''.

SEC. 2. UNIFORM STANDARDS FOR SECRET SERVICE PROTECTION OF PRESIDENTS, 
              VICE PRESIDENTS, AND MAJOR PRESIDENTIAL AND VICE 
              PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES.

    The Director of the United States Secret Service shall apply the 
same standards for determining the number of agents required to protect 
Presidents, Vice Presidents, and major Presidential and Vice 
Presidential candidates.

SEC. 3. REPORT.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Director of the United States Secret Service shall conduct a 
comprehensive review of the provision of protection by the Secret 
Service for Presidents, Vice Presidents, former Presidents, and major 
Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates, and submit to the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate a report that includes the 
findings from such review, along with any recommendations for improving 
the provision of protection.

SEC. 4. DEFINITION.

    In this Act, the term ``major Presidential and Vice Presidential 
candidates'' has the meaning given such term in section 3056 of title 
18, United States Code, and includes any other Presidential or Vice 
Presidential candidate for whom the President has otherwise authorized 
the Secret Service to protect.

            Passed the House of Representatives September 20, 2024.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
118th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 9106

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To direct the Director of the United States Secret Service to apply the 
same standards for determining the number of agents required to protect 
     Presidents, Vice Presidents, and major Presidential and Vice 
            Presidential candidates, and for other purposes.
</pre></body></html>
