<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1486 Reported in House (RH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;





                                                  House Calendar No. 91
118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1486

                          [Report No. 118-705]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3334) to provide for the 
  imposition of sanctions on members of the National Communist Party 
  Congress of the People's Republic of China, and for other purposes; 
   providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8205) to amend the 
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to provide that 
Byrne grant funds may be used for public safety report systems, and for 
other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8790) to 
   expedite under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and 
 improve forest management activities on National Forest System lands, 
     on public lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
  Management, and on Tribal lands to return resilience to overgrown, 
   fire-prone forested lands, and for other purposes; providing for 
consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 1469) ensuring accountability 
 for key officials in the Biden-Harris administration responsible for 
 decisionmaking and execution failures throughout the withdrawal from 
                  Afghanistan; and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 23, 2024

   Mr. Burgess, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3334) to provide for the 
  imposition of sanctions on members of the National Communist Party 
  Congress of the People's Republic of China, and for other purposes; 
   providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8205) to amend the 
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to provide that 
Byrne grant funds may be used for public safety report systems, and for 
other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8790) to 
   expedite under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and 
 improve forest management activities on National Forest System lands, 
     on public lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
  Management, and on Tribal lands to return resilience to overgrown, 
   fire-prone forested lands, and for other purposes; providing for 
consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 1469) ensuring accountability 
 for key officials in the Biden-Harris administration responsible for 
 decisionmaking and execution failures throughout the withdrawal from 
                  Afghanistan; and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3334) to provide for the 
imposition of sanctions on members of the National Communist Party 
Congress of the People's Republic of China, and for other purposes. The 
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs or their respective designees. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs now printed in the bill, modified by the amendment 
printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution, shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the 
Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
the original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the five-
minute rule and shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further 
amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those 
printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules. Each such 
further amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the 
report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall 
be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with 
such further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any 
further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 8205) to amend the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to provide that Byrne grant funds 
may be used for public safety report systems, and for other purposes. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In 
lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on the Judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the 
nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 
118-51 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, 
as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, 
to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees; 
and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved 
into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 8790) to expedite under the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and improve forest management 
activities on National Forest System lands, on public lands under the 
jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management, and on Tribal lands to 
return resilience to overgrown, fire-prone forested lands, and for 
other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. 
General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their respective 
designees. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. The amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now 
printed in the bill, modified by the amendment printed in part C of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be 
considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill for the 
purpose of further amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, 
as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the bill, as amended, 
shall be in order except those printed in part D of the report of the 
Committee on Rules. Each such further amendment may be offered only in 
the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such further amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill, as amended, to the House with such further amendments 
as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit.
    Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order 
without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the 
resolution (H. Res. 1469) ensuring accountability for key officials in 
the Biden-Harris administration responsible for decisionmaking and 
execution failures throughout the withdrawal from Afghanistan. The 
resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the resolution and preamble to adoption 
without intervening motion or demand for division of the question 
except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or 
their respective designees.
    Sec. 5.  Section 3(j) of House Resolution 5 is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) DEFINITION.--For purposes of this subsection, `non-
        governmental capacity' shall mean any capacity except 
        representing the executive branch of the United States 
        government.''.
                                                  House Calendar No. 91

118th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 1486

                          [Report No. 118-705]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3334) to provide for the 
  imposition of sanctions on members of the National Communist Party 
  Congress of the People's Republic of China, and for other purposes; 
   providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8205) to amend the 
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to provide that 
Byrne grant funds may be used for public safety report systems, and for 
other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8790) to 
   expedite under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and 
 improve forest management activities on National Forest System lands, 
     on public lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
  Management, and on Tribal lands to return resilience to overgrown, 
   fire-prone forested lands, and for other purposes; providing for 
consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 1469) ensuring accountability 
 for key officials in the Biden-Harris administration responsible for 
 decisionmaking and execution failures throughout the withdrawal from 
                  Afghanistan; and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 23, 2024

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
</pre></body></html>
