<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1455 Reported in House (RH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;





                                                  House Calendar No. 90
118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1455

                           Report No. 118-685

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3724) to amend the Higher 
 Education Act of 1965 to prohibit recognized accrediting agencies and 
 associations from requiring, encouraging, or coercing institutions of 
higher education to meet any political litmus test or violate any right 
    protected by the Constitution as a condition of accreditation; 
   providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4790) to amend the 
 Federal securities laws with respect to the materiality of disclosure 
 requirements, to establish the Public Company Advisory Committee, and 
for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5179) 
   to require the maintenance of the country of origin markings for 
    imported goods produced in the West Bank or Gaza, and for other 
purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5339) to amend 
    the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to specify 
    requirements concerning the consideration of pecuniary and non-
pecuniary factors, and for other purposes; providing for consideration 
 of the bill (H.R. 5717) to provide that sanctuary jurisdictions that 
provide benefits to aliens who are present in the United States without 
  lawful status under the immigration laws are ineligible for Federal 
 funds intended to benefit such aliens; providing for consideration of 
 the bill (H.R. 7909) to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to 
 provide that aliens who have been convicted of or who have committed 
sex offenses or domestic violence are inadmissible and deportable; and 
  providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 136) 
  providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, 
    United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental 
Protection Agency relating to ``Multi-Pollutant Emissions Standards for 
   Model Years 2027 and Later Light-Duty and Medium-Duty Vehicles''.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 17, 2024

   Mrs. Houchin, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3724) to amend the Higher 
 Education Act of 1965 to prohibit recognized accrediting agencies and 
 associations from requiring, encouraging, or coercing institutions of 
higher education to meet any political litmus test or violate any right 
    protected by the Constitution as a condition of accreditation; 
   providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4790) to amend the 
 Federal securities laws with respect to the materiality of disclosure 
 requirements, to establish the Public Company Advisory Committee, and 
for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5179) 
   to require the maintenance of the country of origin markings for 
    imported goods produced in the West Bank or Gaza, and for other 
purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5339) to amend 
    the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to specify 
    requirements concerning the consideration of pecuniary and non-
pecuniary factors, and for other purposes; providing for consideration 
 of the bill (H.R. 5717) to provide that sanctuary jurisdictions that 
provide benefits to aliens who are present in the United States without 
  lawful status under the immigration laws are ineligible for Federal 
 funds intended to benefit such aliens; providing for consideration of 
 the bill (H.R. 7909) to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to 
 provide that aliens who have been convicted of or who have committed 
sex offenses or domestic violence are inadmissible and deportable; and 
  providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 136) 
  providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, 
    United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental 
Protection Agency relating to ``Multi-Pollutant Emissions Standards for 
   Model Years 2027 and Later Light-Duty and Medium-Duty Vehicles''.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3724) to amend the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 to prohibit recognized accrediting agencies and 
associations from requiring, encouraging, or coercing institutions of 
higher education to meet any political litmus test or violate any right 
protected by the Constitution as a condition of accreditation. The 
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and amendments specified in this section and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce 
or their respective designees. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce now printed in the bill, an amendment in 
the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee 
Print 118-49 shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the 
Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
the original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the five-
minute rule and shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further 
amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those 
printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution. Each such further amendment may be offered only in the 
order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated 
in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the 
time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall 
not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or 
in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such further 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill 
for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, 
to the House with such further amendments as may have been adopted. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4790) to amend the Federal 
securities laws with respect to the materiality of disclosure 
requirements, to establish the Public Company Advisory Committee, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Financial Services now printed in the 
bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text 
of Rules Committee Print 118-48, modified by the amendment printed in 
part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the 
bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Financial Services or their 
respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5179) to require the maintenance 
of the country of origin markings for imported goods produced in the 
West Bank or Gaza, and for other purposes. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed 
in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the 
bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective 
designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5339) to amend the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to specify requirements 
concerning the consideration of pecuniary and non-pecuniary factors, 
and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Education and the Workforce 
now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 118-50 shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, 
are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Education and the Workforce or their respective 
designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 5.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved 
into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 5717) to provide that sanctuary 
jurisdictions that provide benefits to aliens who are present in the 
United States without lawful status under the immigration laws are 
ineligible for Federal funds intended to benefit such aliens. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
the Judiciary or their respective designees. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The 
bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill are waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in 
order except those printed in part C of the report of the Committee on 
Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered 
only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 6.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7909) to amend the Immigration and 
Nationality Act to provide that aliens who have been convicted of or 
who have committed sex offenses or domestic violence are inadmissible 
and deportable. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary now printed in the bill, 
an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of 
Rules Committee Print 118-47 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any 
further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or 
their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 7.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 136) providing 
for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States 
Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency 
relating to ``Multi-Pollutant Emissions Standards for Model Years 2027 
and Later Light-Duty and Medium-Duty Vehicles''. All points of order 
against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint 
resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any 
amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: 
(1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or 
their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
                                                  House Calendar No. 90

118th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 1455

                           Report No. 118-685

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3724) to amend the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 to prohibit recognized accrediting agencies and 
associations from requiring, encouraging, or coercing institutions of 
higher education to meet any political litmus test or violate any right 
protected by the Constitution as a condition of accreditation; providing 
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4790) to amend the Federal securities 
laws with respect to the materiality of disclosure requirements, to 
establish the Public Company Advisory Committee, and for other purposes; 
providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5179) to require the 
maintenance of the country of origin markings for imported goods produced 
in the West Bank or Gaza, and for other purposes; providing for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 5339) to amend the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 to specify requirements concerning the 
consideration of pecuniary and non-pecuniary factors, and for other 
purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5717) to provide 
that sanctuary jurisdictions that provide benefits to aliens who are 
present in the United States without lawful status under the immigration 
laws are ineligible for Federal funds intended to benefit such aliens; 
providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7909) to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to provide that aliens who have been 
convicted of or who have committed sex offenses or domestic violence are 
inadmissible and deportable; and providing for consideration of the joint 
resolution (H.J. Res. 136) providing for congressional disapproval under 
chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the 
Environmental Protection Agency relating to ``Multi-Pollutant Emissions 
Standards for Model Years 2027 and Later Light-Duty and Medium-Duty 
Vehicles''.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 17, 2024

         Referred to the House Calendar; ordered to be printed
</pre></body></html>
